[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
It's James C. from
"Food Matters."
And welcome to this
special interview on FMTV
with Joe Cross.
Joe, I'm lucky to call
a friend of mine now.
He's a fellow Aussie.
He's featured in one of our
films, "Hungry for Change."
And he's also the star of his
own film, "Fat, Sick & Nearly
Dead," which is a must watch.
I remember the first time I saw
it, I just cried like a baby,
especially at the end scene.
If you haven't seen
it yet, check it out.
It's unbelievable.
He's also gone on to do
other films, books, be
the face of these
amazing events worldwide.
And Joe, it's a pleasure to
be chatting to you, mate.
>> Thanks, James.
Great to be here, mate.
Good to see you.
>> Joe, for those people that
haven't seen your films "Fat,
Sick & Nearly Dead," "Fat,
Sick and Nearly Dead 2,"
and "The Kids Menu," tell us
a little bit about this story
of yours and how you ended up
being a filmmaker and a bit
of a celebrity in this
health and wellness space.
>> Well, James, "Fat,
Sick, & Nearly Dead"
one really is my personal
story, going from being broken,
being fat, being sick,
being nearly dead,
to trying to get
myself back on track,
to get off medication and
just get my life back,
my happiness back.
So that's that story.
That movie released in 2011,
has been seen by around 25
million people worldwide.
And it just continues everyday
to change people's lives,
influence them in
a positive way.
Around 2014, we decided to
go out and try and continue
the story on with
"Fat, Sick, & Nearly
Dead 2," which effectively,
I wanted to go and meet
some of the people that the
movie had affected and changed
their lives as well as give
an update to where I was at
and where I was going.
So that's "Fat, Sick
& Nearly Dead 2."
And that was fun to make.
And we're all over the world.
We're in Europe, we're in
Africa, we're in Australia.
It had this global phenomenon.
So that was really
cool and exciting.
Then "The Kids Menu"
really was-- every time
I was out giving
talks, James, and I'm
sure you get this, as well,
I got lots of parents saying,
Joe, what about the kids?
What about the next generation?
What can we do for the kids?
And so it seemed to
me that this question
kept coming up more and
more and more and more.
So I said to my team--
I said, look, I think
our third film, which
is going to be necessarily
off Joe, not about my story,
just focusing on what's
a really important story,
and that is the
next generation--
how can we inspire, educate,
entertain and inform kids?
And what I meant by kids--
kids to me is 0 to 21.
And that's the focus
of this new film
of mine, "The Kids Menu," which
has been out about 12 months
now.
It's only on Netflix,
unfortunately.
I would love it to be
on Food Matters TV,
but Netflix took an exclusive.
So a couple of years, it'll
definitely be on your network.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> But this was the impetus
behind the third film.
What about the kids?
>> Yeah.
Great.
I love it.
It's a great film.
I was lucky to see a copy just
before it went out on Netflix.
>> Thanks, mate.
>> That's good stuff.
>> Yeah, we're very proud of it.
>> Good stuff.
Why juice at the beginning?
This catalyst for you,
transforming your health
and the "Fat, Sick &
Nearly Dead" film, which
was just so transformative--
I know when people watch
it, they're so inspired.
But what was it about
juice in particular
that made you decide to
use that as a particular--
>> So I got to juice via plants.
The original concept was,
OK, I'm fat and I'm sick.
I need to fix this.
So I thought, I'll take
the sick one first.
And my turning my back on
Mother Nature, saying to her,
look, I'll be fine--
I'm going to go down
this processed route
and catch you later.
You cannot ignore the biological
laws of cause and effect.
You go and do that, you
will break eventually.
I broke at age 32.
And I couldn't
believe that I broke.
I'm a rugby player.
I'm strong.
I've always been fit.
And here I am taking meds
every day, every lunchtime,
every evening.
And the doctor's
saying, Joe, you're
going to be on this
for all your life.
And I'm like, I
don't think so, pal.
But then eight years later,
I'm still taking them.
And this was a disease of touch.
This was a bad illness.
So it's called chronic
urticaria angioedema.
It's fancy way of
saying chronic hives.
And if you and I shook
hands and you shook my hand
just a normal
tight grip, my hand
could swell up as though it
had been jammed in a car door.
That's the kind of pain
that I would go through
from any physical pressure,
any touch on my body.
So it was a big issue.
So when I decided to
consume only plant food,
to switch away from this
standard American diet
that I was consuming,
high processed
foods, high refined
sugars, carbohydrates,
lots of takeaway,
lots of alcohol,
smoking, no exercise,
this major stress,
all of these lifestyle choices--
when I decided to clean
house, the idea of plants
just made sense.
It's just logical.
Go back to what made us
the most successful species
on this planet, Mother
Nature, that partnership.
So that was the sick part.
But now when you go to
the fat part, James,
why was I carrying around an
extra 100 pounds or an extra 40
kilos of fat?
What was the purpose of it?
And when you go back
and look at this,
you realize it's just
stored up energy.
People walk around saying,
oh, how fat that person,
look at how fat--
they're not fat.
They're just people carrying
all this extra energy.
And their body is waiting
for that moment in time
when there's no energy consumed
so that energy can be used.
And so I thought, wow,
this is an aha moment here.
I need to not eat.
I need to go back to
what my ancestors did,
which is pretend that
there's a famine.
We've gone through
feast and famine.
That's part of the
history of our humanity.
And I have forgotten
how to famine.
So then I had this big problem.
I'm like, don't eat
and eat lots of plants.
I've got a problem.
I've got these two great
ideas, but they're not
coming together.
And then it hit me.
What is juicing?
Juicing is extracting
the water from plants.
It's not mashing up a
plant like a blender does.
It's actually stripping
out all of the water that
is harnessed in plants.
So when you put salary or
cucumber or an apple or kale
or a pear or ginger--
when you put that
through a juicer,
that's extracting the water out.
And the funny thing is it comes
in a colorful way, either red,
purple, green,
yellow, or orange.
You have five primary
colors of sunlight
that's harnessed in plants.
And that color is where
all those nutrients live,
these micronutrients,
these minerals,
these chemicals that
are absolutely critical
for our cell not only function,
but production and longevity.
And so if you think about
really what juice is,
it's the true Vitamin Water.
It's the true mineral water.
It's the true nutrient water.
And it's not eating, which
gave me that bit of leeway
I was trying to create
by the famine idea.
So I look at juice "fasting--"
and the word "fasting"
is the wrong word to use
there, but everyone understands
what that means, because
fasting is zero calories, zero
energy, zero nutrients.
But if we just give us a bit of
latitude and say juice fasting,
it really means you
are not consuming
any fiber that is insoluble.
You're only consuming
soluble fiber,
so fiber that can dissolve and
be so tiny it's in the water,
but the stuff that is
the mechanism that plants
have created to deliver
the nutrients to us.
That fiber when you eat celery,
James, you actually pass out
the fiber through your bowels.
You don't consume the fiber to
give you any nutrient benefit.
The nutrients are in the water.
They're trapped molecules
that are in the water that
are in the celery plant itself.
So the idea of juice--
I know I've given you
a long answer here.
But the idea for me is that it
was this beautiful combination
and magic of getting
the nutrients I need
from Mother Nature and providing
this, in inverted commas,
"fast."
So I was tricking my
body into thinking
it wasn't eating
when in actual fact,
I was flooding it
with micronutrients.
>> Yeah.
It's so fascinating, isn't it?
Because we have
such a rich history
as humans on this planet.
And we've gone through so much.
And it's only been
in recent times
that we have seen
processed foods,
that we've seen preserved
foods, preserved incorrectly.
I'm not talking about fermented
foods, properly fermented.
I'm talking incorrectly
preserved and salted foods.
And it's caused such
havoc on our bodies.
And it makes so much
sense to just go back
towards these natural
processes of fasting.
You talked about the
difference a little bit
between juices and
smoothies here.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Now, this is an
interesting conversation.
And everyone always asks me,
I'm sure they ask you everytime.
>> Sure.
I get asked every day, social
media, maybe 10 times a day.
>> Juices versus smoothies.
>> Yeah.
>> Look, and there's
some obvious differences.
But do you love
one over the other?
Do you turn to different ones
at different points in time?
And what are your opinions
on one versus another?
>> So I think the best
way to think about--
let's think about what we're all
trying to do if we're serious
about wanting to be happy and
be healthy and live longer
and just be all around the
best person that we can be.
If we're serious about
that, then you've
got to enter into a partnership
deal with Mother Nature.
You need to include Mother
Nature in your life.
She needs to be with
you as much as possible.
Yes, there are days when you can
not include her in your life.
But majority of the time, she's
got to be front and center.
So there's only
really three ways
to consume the
incredible benefits that
are found in micronutrients,
which are majority found
in plant food, fruits,
vegetables, nuts, beans, seeds,
whole grains, whole foods.
And that is either using
your mouth to chew,
either just using your
hands, a knife and fork,
whatever, using a blender,
which will effectively
outsource the masticating,
the chewing-- you're
outsourcing it to a machine.
So you're saving your teeth
and your jaw and the chewing.
And you blend it up.
Now, generally to
do that, you need
to put some liquid in there.
And most people put in a
juice, either an apple juice
or a straight fruit juice.
They put in a milk, a
nut milk, hopefully,
that's an almond or a cashew
or some kind of a milk.
They'll put in a coconut water.
They'll put in some
kind of liquid.
So instantly, we are taking
the nutrient density--
we're actually
deintensifying it.
We're diluting it, which
is not a bad thing.
But we just need to be aware
that when you put something in,
you're diluting
the nutrient value.
And really, a smoothie is
really just consumption of food,
but somebody else
or something else
has chewed it for you, in
this case, the blender.
Juicing is like outsourcing
digestion to a machine.
Not only are we
outsourcing the chewing,
we're outsourcing the
function of digestion.
Because we're saying,
you know what?
Let's let the blender separate
the fiber from the nutrients.
So we consume this water.
And when we drink the
water, this high density
of micronutrients, we
get rapid absorption.
And the body doesn't really
go into this-- enzymes
aren't generated to
break down the food.
So you can actually
trick yourself
into thinking you
didn't eat, which
is why I don't ever recommend
juicing as a meal replacement
because you're going to be
hungry because you didn't
really feel satisfied.
You didn't fill up
your stomach, so
to speak, as if you did a
blended smoothie or something.
Because you can feel quite full
if you do a blended smoothie.
But when you juice for a period
of time, over three days,
that's when the hunger will turn
off, and then you'll feel full.
But in just normal everyday
consumption of our plants,
I'm a big fan, James,
of doing all three,
juicing, blending, and chewing.
>> Great.
Love it.
Good.
Well-answered.
So you've just come off the
back of a 30-day reboot.
>> Yeah.
>> And this would be maybe,
I don't know, I'm guessing--
how many have you
done now since--
>> Well, this is the longest
one I've done since I did the 60
days way back in 2007.
So this is nine years later.
In the previous times, I've done
between 15, 18 days as long,
and 5 to 10 days.
And let's make sure we
define what a reboot is.
Because a reboot is not
necessarily a juice fast.
We talk about rebooting
as incorporating juicing,
blending, and eating
plants, if someone
wants to define their
reboot like that.
It's a time where we
focus only on plant food.
We do no animal product and
we do absolutely no processed
food.
We don't bring anything
else into our system
other than fruits and veggies.
We don't do nuts.
We don't do those things.
We're just fruits
and veggies only.
So it's not even vegan.
It's more strict.
And majority of people
find that juicing them
is much more beneficial in
the longer term for them
because they just feel amazing.
They feel great, like
jump out of their skin.
So for me, I do--
I started off,
James, afterwards--
I was doing them every
three, four months.
I found it to be a little
bit monotonous early.
So I'm probably down to every
four months to five months,
I do a reboot.
But this was something because--
this was an opportunity,
being back in Australia,
being focused.
'16 was a very tough,
stressful year.
It was a lot of things
that were moving and--
I had partnerships
with companies
that it was like next month,
next month, next month.
And a lot of that time, even
though you're not really
doing anything, just
that waiting around
can be stressful
because you don't
know about a certainty
of the future.
And I find that when stress
comes to me, things drop off.
Exercise falls away, choices--
I live an 80-20 rule, James.
80% of the time, I
try to be really good.
20% of the time, I just
relax and have a good time.
If we went to a baseball game,
a football game, a cricket game,
whatever--
I don't eat meat right now, but
if you wanted to have a pie,
I'll have a pie with you.
I don't drink a beer, but
maybe I'll have a ginger ale.
That'd be my special
occasion thing.
So I try to do the 80-20 rule.
And I think what
happened to me in '16
is it probably went more 60-40
than 80-20 towards the back end
of the year.
So I recognized that.
You don't feel as good.
You don't feel as strong.
You're not as vibrant.
You're not thinking clear
or you're not sleeping well.
And of course, this can then
steam roll into other problems,
not wanting to move, not
wanting to get a good night's
sleep, worrying about things.
And so to me, it was just like
this little circuit breaker
that, wow, I've got this
month of January in 2017.
I'm really going to kick
this new year off in a way
where I'm just going
to pay homage and bring
Mother Nature back into
my life a little bit more.
>> Great.
I love it.
You talked there about
having a tough year,
it was emotionally tough.
Life is like that.
>> Yeah, you bet.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
And no one's immune from it.
What emotions or
emotional issues
potentially come up
during a cleanse for you?
Because when we talk about
cleansing and detoxification,
we're typically talking
about tissue cleansing,
the biomechanical elements of
the body, eliminating toxins.
But then I know from
experience myself
and with a lot of people,
there are generally
emotions that come up.
How was this last
30 days for you?
Was there things that you
felt you worked through?
Was there emotions that came up?
Or was it not really an issue?
>> Oh, no, definitely an issue.
It's a good question.
And it's probably a
part of the conversation
that I talk the least
about, but probably has
the most relevance.
And when I'm out on my
circuit either talking
about a film or new book,
I always tell the story
that I believe is going on
in Australia, in the UK,
in America, in
Dubai, in Germany,
wherever, the Western
world, that I believe--
and this is sad,
but I believe this,
that over half the population
over the age of 35, James,
gets out of bed in the
morning, looks in the mirror,
and looks there and says,
oh, my God, look at you.
You're a disaster.
You're a disgrace.
You're fat.
You're ugly.
You're a loser.
You're a no-hoper.
You're just the
worst of the worst.
This is the internal
conversation
that they're having with
themselves the first thing
in the morning every day.
I know people who
don't ever want
to look in the mirror, James.
They're disgusted by
what they see back.
They had this vision of
where they were going to be,
and they're just
nowhere near it.
So they start their day
off with this negativity.
How are you going to be
when you go and greet
the wife or the husband
or the kids for breakfast?
How are you going to be
after that little pep talk?
It's just a shocking
way to start your day.
Now, I'm no different.
I'm human.
When I'm having a tough time,
when I'm doing the 60-40
or when I've had maybe 3
days of eating the crap food,
I wake up thinking
the same thing.
Here's what happens
when you flood
your system with this nutrition,
when you get this momentum--
I talk a lot about
momentum, wind in your back,
wind full of your
sails, going forward.
You start giving yourself little
pats on the back, little wins.
Five days in, go, Joe.
Seven days in, you
got this, mate.
10 days in, we're a
third of the way there.
This positive, starting
to love yourself--
and I'm not talking about love
yourself taking 100 selfies.
I'm talking about love yourself
as, I am a good person.
I've got this.
I can do this.
That plays an enormous
role in your thoughts
for the rest of the day.
When negative thoughts come
in about a problem, oh,
you've got to deal with this,
it's like, you know what?
We can find a way around this.
We can manage this.
Anything can be
solved when you're
in the right frame of mind.
I look at it nothing other
than loving yourself.
And if we can all love
ourselves a little bit more,
then we can be more positive
not only to ourselves,
but to people around us.
And we can actually
prosper and go forward
and accomplish those goals
that we've set ourselves to do.
>> Beautiful.
It is a topic that's
not often spoken about.
I'm glad that you're
able to openly speak
about it in that way.
Because the emotional elements
of making peace with your body
is such an important
conversation.
And it's unfortunate
that advertising
and our modern world doesn't
really allow us to do that.
>> Yeah.
Look, I think that one of the
things that I try to share
is that, what is healthy?
What is being healthy?
Being healthy is not necessarily
being on the cover of swimsuit
"SI," whatever that magazine
is, being on the cover of these
incredible bodies that
just look like they're--
where do they come
from, what planet,
these guys with these
not 6 packs, 12 packs,
the veins popping
here and everywhere.
I don't look at that
and say, that's healthy.
Yeah, I respect the training
those people went through
and I respect the majority of
it's genetics and good luck.
You were lucky when it
came to the genetic pool.
I think healthy is being able
to do the things you want
to do, James, with
ease, so if you want
to take the kids for a hike
and it's a three-hour hike,
that you can do it.
If you want to go down to the
beach and surf for three hours,
great.
If you want to go and
swim a mile in a pool,
you can do it and enjoy it.
To me, doing things you
want to do with ease
is what being healthy is.
And we have this
vision and this idea
that if you're overweight, if
you're 20, 30 pounds, 50 pounds
overweight, that somehow
you're not healthy.
That's all garbage.
20% of people can be 10
to 20 pounds overweight
and have absolutely no
problems whatsoever.
There's an enormous amount
of people that are too thin.
We call them skinny-fat,
living on caffeine
and nicotine, smoking and
drinking coffee all day.
And they're undernourished.
And they're just at risk of
cancer, just at risk of stroke,
just at risk of heart disease
as someone who's 300 pounds.
So we have to really be
careful here just to judge
this book by the cover and
say, well, because she's thin
and he's thin, they're healthy.
And that girl and
that bloke, they're
fat so they're unhealthy.
That's complete baloney.
>> And one of the things,
just touching on the previous
question, is that you
could be the fittest person
in the world, but if you've
got a lot of negative self-talk
and you're always
unhappy and depressed,
then what's the point of it?
>> Hundred percent.
>> So when you talk
about a reboot,
one of the things you mentioned
just before was that it's not
restricted just to juicing.
>> No.
>> You said that a reboot is
something-- a reboot or a--
I think there's fasting,
which is more extreme.
>> Correct.
>> And then you've got
this reboot idea of yours,
which is more about--
I love how you say it,
running towards Mother Nature.
I use that quite a bit, Joe.
Hope you don't mind.
>> Go ahead.
>> I quote you.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
And you're just like,
how can somebody
who might be looking to
just reboot their life
or give themselves a
kickstart get as much fruits
and vegetables-- or
vegetables and fruits,
probably, into their diet
as possible in a 7, 10, 20,
30-day window?
And so people can choose
to do a reboot with juices,
with smoothies, maybe
with soups, maybe
with eating some vegetables.
>> Right.
Absolutely.
>> So why do you suggest that?
>> Because we're all different.
The way I think about
it, James, is this.
I use this analogy of
the local swimming pool.
Go down to the local town
swimming pool in summer
and have a look.
What do you notice,
James, about people
who get out of a swimming pool?
What's the common theme?
>> There is none.
>> They're wet.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> You get out of a swimming
pool, you're wet, OK?
The question is,
how did you get wet?
Did you jump in or did you
slowly walk down the stairs,
de de de.
Two types of people
in this world, people
who want to dive in and go
all for nothing and there
are others who want
to take it slow,
step by step, little bit at a
time, change this, change that.
Now, I'm not one of those people
who can walk into the swimming
pool, going down and letting
the water slowly come up
all the way.
I'm the jump in, dive in guy.
Hence, my journey was
about 60 days of juice.
We're going to knock this over.
Other people are not like that.
There's plenty of
people who say,
that's just too extreme for me.
I just want to
incorporate plants.
How can I--
So the last thing
I'm going to do
is say to somebody,
whoa, no, no.
You got to do juice and
that's the only way to do it.
That's nonsense.
So we try to create
a path for all,
that if you want to
get wet, i.e., healthy,
you can jump in, either juice,
or you can slowly walk in,
which is juicing,
blending, and eating.
I often talk,
James-- and this is--
people say, oh, I don't
know if I could do that, I
don't know if I could do that.
I go, well, listen,
let's just tell a story.
Imagine if you were--
there was a great TV
show called "Lost"
where they had a
crash in the Pacific
and they ended up on
this desert island.
Just imagine if you're on
the desert island by yourself
and you were there
for 40 or 50 days.
You had fresh running
water and you had shelter.
So 50 days, you're
going to be fine.
You're not going to die.
That's going to
be perfectly fine.
You're going to just
drink water for 50 days.
You're going to be
hungry and you're
going to be doing it tough
the first three or four days.
I reckon by day
20, you're probably
thinking, please, no one come.
I'm having the best time ever.
Because you're going to
be feeling unbelievable.
But let's assume that
you get rescued on day 50
and you're taken aboard
the ship and someone puts
out this incredible mango,
pineapple, strawberries,
bananas, kale, cucumber, all
this platter of Mother Nature's
finest.
I guarantee you, James, that's
the best meal you're ever going
to have in your whole life.
Scenario number
two, same person.
Forget about the
trip to the island.
Let's take them to
their best restaurant,
fill them up with the
pasta, the burgers,
with the fries, the
beers, the wine.
Let's take them outside.
And in the car park
before they get in,
here's this beautiful platter
of the pineapple, the mango,
exactly what we did in
that first scenario.
Oh, no, sorry, Joe.
I can't have any of that.
It's not going to taste
any good is it, James?
Because what they've
done is we've--
and this is what we do.
We constantly bombard
ourselves with this food that
has been manufactured to hit our
bliss point, this combination
of sugar, fat, and salt that
these corporations have spent
billions of dollars of
technology and marketing
on to own this real estate in
our gut to get a hold of this.
And it's very difficult
for Mother Nature's finest
to compete with that.
So the idea of this break,
this restart, this kick-- this,
I'm not having any of that
for a period of time, 5 days,
10 days, that's emulating our
crash in the Pacific where we
get to the island, so that
when you start eating again--
avocado is the best
thing ever invented.
It's unbelievable.
So that's the idea of it.
The idea of a reboot is
not about losing weight
and a diet for the long term.
It's an idea to get you
to fall back in love
with Mother Nature's finest.
It's the reentry
that we all need
to do if we've
gone off the rails.
>> I love it.
What's the hardest thing
about doing a reboot?
>> There's a lot of hard
things for some people.
For me, I don't find it hard.
So let's forget about me.
Let's talk about what I've
learned from my community.
>> And you don't find it
hard because you've done it?
>> Yeah, I don't find it hard.
>> So...
>> I find it boring.
I find it boring.
I'm bored as F. I am just
like, somebody shoot me.
Because it's boring.
Everyone's going
out and I'm going
to sit at home
with a green juice
and watch another
episode on Netflix.
And it's like, I'm over this.
Anyone who's worried about
how fast time is going,
get yourself on a reboot.
That'll slow it down.
You can really smell
the roses then.
But majority of people
that I speak to,
they'll go into a
number of factors.
First of all, they'll
probably go with cost.
They'll say, oh,
it's too much money.
I can't-- $25 a day
on juice is too much.
When I think about
that like two cocktails
in a bar can cost you $25, but--
>> Expensive bar,
that's one cocktail.
>> Yeah, true.
But I get it.
I understand that
it's-- for some people,
you got to buy the machine.
You got to buy--
I get it.
Time-consuming-- I get all that.
But what people don't realize
is you can do it twice a week.
You can make a whole bunch
of juice for three days,
seal it in glass jars, keep
it in the refrigerator.
That's fine, next three days.
Then you can juice again.
So you're only
doing two clean ups.
So this idea of it takes too
long to clean my juicer up
versus blending--
blending, you've
got to drink it straight away.
You got to clean up
seven times in a week.
Juicing is just twice.
This is really important.
But the next factor
is that they've
got to cook for their
kids or their husband
or their wife or their partner.
So there is this issue
of, I become anti-social.
So my family, my friends,
are doing something
and I can't participate.
So that's a hard thing.
Another hard thing is
people's addictions.
People are addicted to
things like sugar, fat, salt
and caffeine.
These are massive addictions.
And I get many, many emails
and people tell me, Joe,
I can do to reboot,
but I need my coffee.
And I say, you know what?
Do it.
Do the reboot and
have the coffee.
I'd rather you do
that than not do it.
So have the coffee.
Just do it.
Try and bring your coffee down
over the time, the five days.
Try and go from two cups
to one and half cups.
See if you can get it down.
So it's the addiction.
And so I think these are the
tough things about a reboot.
I'm a bit shocked--
honestly, when I made
this movie nine years ago
and it released
five years ago, I
thought that there
would be nowhere
near the uptake of
the tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands, of
people that have done reboots
around the world.
It still amazes me that
I get very negative--
and I'm being very honest
because there's no other way
to be.
I've never had anyone
send me an email,
say, wow, I did a
10-day reboot and I
felt like shit at the end
of it, no one, nobody.
I've heard people
say, I quit at day two
because I felt like shit
and I quit at day three
because I couldn't do it.
I get a lot of that.
But I've never had someone
do what they said they were
going to do and feel crappy.
Doesn't happen.
A hundred percent
success rate of people
going, I'm on top of the world.
I feel unbelievable.
This is the best ever.
And it's natural and
normal because your body's
gone into survival mode.
We've tricked the body into
thinking it needs food.
So if you really
contemplate that, the--
to make the magnificent James
here, for you to be here,
we've needed, roughly speaking,
10,000 sets of grandparents
of Homo sapiens.
We've been here
around 240,000 years.
And if you take an average of
24 years of age reproducing,
you can say 10,000
sets of grandparents.
So 10,000 swaps of
genetic material
have created you,
and same for me.
And your ancestors have
gone through periods
of feast and famine, feast
and famine, feast and famine.
During the famine, what
actually got them through
was this body shutting
down and saying,
right, we got to get James off
this bloody cave man floor,
get him down onto the
savanna, walk 50 miles,
and find bloody food, mate.
Get out there and find food.
So in order to do that, what do
you need to find food, James?
You need better eyesight.
You need better sense
of hearing, smell.
You need more energy.
You need to be able to walk
for 30 miles a day, keep going,
mate, till you get some food.
The body is assisting you.
You're in this survival mode.
And that's what people
experience after four days,
on the fourth day
of juicing only,
when no fiber has gone in.
You blend.
You're tricking is--
there's no trick anymore.
It's like eating.
So you don't get
this from eating.
So you've got to take the fiber
out to get to this nirvana of,
I'm in survival mode.
And it's in that mode that you
get the euphoria, euphoria,
this euphoric feeling.
And that's where religion
hijacked fasting.
That's why the Buddhists,
the Christians, the Muslims,
the Hindus, all the big boys--
they took fasting
and said, right,
let's go allow people
to fast because they're
going to be closer to God.
Because you do feel like
you're closer to God.
You feel like you can
run through brick walls.
And that's what your ancestors--
and that's been
passed on in you.
You have that.
Everyone listening,
everyone watching,
they have that in their DNA.
Their body is far smarter
than they'll ever be.
It knows what to do
and how to heal itself
if it's given the chance.
You got to give it the chance.
And fasting/juice fasting/eating
only fruits and vegetables
is giving the body
that chance to heal.
>> Beautiful.
It must be frustrating for
you to see so much pain
and suffering in the world
and to know that such
a simple solution exists.
How do you keep
positive in these times
where-- we're coming up to
1 in 2 people have cancer.
We've got 1 in 2
with heart disease.
>> Yep.
>> The World Health Organization
has said that diabetes,
obesity, or diabesity,
as it's commonly referred
to, and mental health
conditions are the three biggest
challenges facing
the developed world.
And there's such
a simple solution.
>> Yep.
>> Does that make you upset
or does it make you excited?
>> I go through stages.
I don't think I get upset.
I get upset on a personal level,
for people, with their stories.
I'm quite an optimistic
person, James.
I believe that if you want to
find a way to do something,
you'll find a way.
But I've been blessed that
I was born into a family
where my parents gave me that--
I guess they created an
environment where they said,
it's possible to do
something you believe in.
I know that a lot of people
are not born into family units
where they get that
kind of encouragement
from the beginning.
So I get that.
So when I am out seeing
what's going on in the world,
I understand the huge
hurdles that we are facing,
the multi-billion-dollar
marketing campaigns for sugar,
fat, and salt and caffeine
that are out there,
the idea of escalators
and elevators and cars
and transport to prevent
us from moving and walking,
and just that idea of
picking up your cell phone,
pressing an app, and
12,000 calories appearing
in a cardboard box with
cheese filled in the crusts,
running around the corner, and
two cans of soda that basically
is just--
how many hundred thousand
cubes of sugar in that?
And you can sit down
and watch a game
and all the exercise you
did was press your thumb.
And if someone else opened the
door, you didn't have to move.
This is the hurdles against us.
Now, I'm like anyone else, mate.
I love being on the couch,
having soda, drinking soda,
eating pizza.
It used to be my
favorite thing to do.
And I miss it.
I do.
Even just talking
about it now, I go,
that would be fun, actually.
But I know that it'd be
fun for five minutes.
And after I've eaten
it, after I've drunk it,
I'd feel like crap.
So this little joy, this
little moment of joy,
would then give me
depression for two weeks.
So I don't do it.
I'm in the presence of
mind not to do that.
So I get that so
many people out there
haven't had the
opportunities that I have had
and the encouragement I've had.
So what I try to do, and
I know you try to do this,
is create content that can
inspire, educate, entertain
and show that if I can
do it, you can do it.
And if he or she can
And this is where people are
drawing their inspiration from.
I'm not a celebrity.
I'm not this person
better than anyone else.
I'm just a knockabout,
average bloke.
Half the stuff that the
scientists know, I go and get
it from them and
I try to take it--
OK, forget that, forget that.
People aren't-- oh,
that, give me that.
Give me more on that.
My audience is going to
want to know about that.
So I'm like a translator.
I go to really smart,
interesting geniuses,
listen to them for
three or four hours,
and say, right, well, 20 minutes
of that was worthwhile sharing,
capture that, and then
transform it into a way
that it can be fun,
interesting, either an animation
or if they're good enough,
play it in the movie.
And so to answer
this question about,
am I disheartened--
no, because I
think we've got technology
today, whether it's YouTube,
whether it's Netflix, whether
it's FMTV, whether it's
all of these models that if
you are interested, if you want
to find something
out, you can find
credible people with good
hearts that are transparent,
that are willing to share.
And I said to you
too earlier before we
started filming this--
I said, I've learned a lot
on this nine-year journey
I've been on.
And I know that
some of the stuff
I was talking about six, seven
years ago, five years ago, even
three years ago, had I
known what I know now,
I would have
shifted the message.
I would have said, do
this rather than that.
So I'm learning.
I'm evolving.
And what I'm doing is
opening doors for me
to listen to the
experts and learn more.
And so I'm certainly--
I don't see myself
as an expert at all.
I see myself as an
interpreter and someone
who's just like you at home.
I'm just trying to do my best.
>> Well, you shouldn't not
see yourself as a celebrity
because I've seen people
stop you for photos, Joe.
So--
>> Well, yeah, but that's--
they think I'm Russell Crowe.
They get mistaken.
Oh, you're not Russell?
Oh, sorry, mate.
Sorry, mate.
>> Bit of a practical one here.
What tips do you have for
people transitioning back
to whole foods if
they've been doing
a juicing or a
juicing/smoothieing
or a little bit of food?
How do you transition after?
>> Yeah.
It's really important that
the day of transition--
depends how long
you've been going.
If you've been doing
5, 10 days, then a day
is fine, and get back.
If you go on
longer, you probably
need two or three days.
But I think foods that--
if you just think about
things that are mushy already,
like watermelons, pineapples--
sweet potato is a good
one, roasted sweet potato,
cauliflower, soups, things
that can be blended,
that can be heated.
I got to tell you, James,
30 days, the one thing
that you miss a
lot is warm food.
Because 30-day
reboot I just did,
mate, everything is
bloody cold, nothing warm.
And so when you have that
first bit of warm soup or--
I had a bit of dal,
a bit of lentil.
Ahh.
Wow.
It was unbelievable.
And the other thing which
is good for the blokes,
not too good for the
girls, unfortunately--
but because I've got
a bit of growth here,
little bit of this, I go into
the surf and then I come out,
towel myself down, but don't
towel the face, just lie there,
let the salt water--
so you get a salt
caught in your--
yum yum-- taste a
bit of sea salt,
because you don't have any salt
when you're rebooting either.
So these are little
things that are just so--
they're just like
little moments that you
take for granted when you're
not doing things like that.
But transitioning
in, very important.
I don't put any protein.
I'm not eating animal
protein right now,
but I wouldn't put any animal
protein in for a day or two.
I'd go more plant proteins.
And of course,
we've learned now--
one of things I was talking
about earlier is we've learned
that you've got to put
protein in your juice
if you're going to juice
for more than 15 days.
When I lost my 82 pounds in
60 days, 70% of it was fat,
but 30% of it was muscle.
And we don't want
to lose muscle.
That's important.
So by having a
pea protein, which
we have and I know you've
got some good protein
powders as well--
incorporating those into
the juice, very important.
>> Mm-hmm.
OK.
Good stuff.
What about any words
of wisdom for people
that are thinking about
doing this sort of reboot,
but they're not really sure or
they're a little bit scared of
what to do?
>> So I understand the fear.
It's change.
A lot people are--
really, what they're
scared of is the change.
I would ask them to think of
change equaling opportunity.
It's a way to
challenge yourself.
This is an opportunity to think
about the amazing things--
the holiday you're
giving your body.
I try to help tell them to
get outside of their body
and look back at this incredible
apparatus, this organism,
this thing we were given.
You only get one crack at this.
You only get one shot.
And I don't know
about you, but maybe
for the first 40
years of my life,
I wasn't treating it
with much respect.
I was trashing it.
So when I do my reboots,
when I'm psyching myself up,
when the going gets
a bit tough, I always
think about the amazing things
that are going on in my body
and just forget about my
selfishness for being bored,
for not being able to go out
and have an incredible falafel
even though it's vegan and
it's good, healthy eating, just
this restriction.
And I think about what's
going on inside my body.
I think about the energy that's
being used up and consumed.
I don't like people thinking
about it for weight loss.
I think that's
the wrong message.
I think you've got
to think about it
as the incredible
toxic cleanup that
can take place in your system.
Your body is going to consume--
and just take the average male.
And we'll talk calories
because I talk in calories,
most of the audience being US.
If you're a male,
where you've got
to consume 2,400
calories, James,
and you do my juicing
program and you're
having 800 calories a day,
your body is going to find--
it's going to find the 1,600
calories on the human body
to consume, to self-digest,
and feed your metabolism.
It ain't not gonna do it.
It's going to find them.
And it's going to go
around in your body
and convert some of the fat into
energy, and some of the muscle
if you're not careful
with your protein.
So let's think about it.
It doesn't start
self-digesting your eye.
You don't lose your
tongue overnight.
It doesn't eat your liver or
your kidneys or your heart.
No, no, no, no.
The body is super smart.
It goes to the stuff
it needs the least.
So just think about that.
Think about all these cells
that haven't had a chance
to get rid of-- and maybe
a little bit of a cyst
or a little tumor
starting here or whatever.
Oh, we don't need that.
Eat that, eat that.
Oh, no, leave the liver.
Leave the gallbladder.
That's good stuff.
Kidneys, leave that alone.
This is what happens.
And so over a period of time, I
visualize these little cleaners
running around.
I seriously do this.
I visualize my body
self-digesting the crap.
And this gives me my momentum.
So for those who are
frightened, scared,
just think about
how cool it would
be to have this
little cleanup crew go
through every crevice of
the insides of your body
and scoop up all the bad shit.
>> Great.
To use the power of
visualization during a reboot,
I think, is powerful, too, just
to imagine all that cleansing
happening.
And one of the things you
touched on on this answer
was about that feeling you
get when you start to eat food
again and what you appreciate.
I think I have experienced a
lot of detoxing and cleanses
and reboots over the years
of being in this health
and wellness space.
And one of the most
memorable things
that I have coming out
of those experiences
is how incredible an
avocado is or a peach.
And maybe that's also
one of the benefits,
is to remember how beautiful--
>> Yeah, fall back in
love with Mother Nature.
That's--
>> And how beautiful
natural foods are.
It's such a gift.
OK.
Final question here.
>> Yeah.
>> If the world was your
classroom and you could
literally walk out onto the
stage and there's all six
billion of us sitting there,
we can all hear you loud
and clear, what is one
lesson that you would teach
to humanity?
>> One lesson?
I guess I would want to
share the power that I
think is in fasting.
It'd be a tough sell,
but I'd give it a crack.
I'd need a bit of time.
Probably need 40 minutes.
So it'd be like--
I'd need some visual aids.
But I would probably
want to share
the power of
fasting/going without
focused on a specific
liquid water through plant
only existence or a more
rigid water existence
for this period of
four to five days.
I think we're on the cusp,
James, of it really coming back
into vogue, where
Millennials are so open
and realizing that my Generation
X and the Baby Boomers
really messed things up.
And we're very much focused on
a single voice and marketing
and this way.
And I think that there is
a huge rebellion going on.
Look at mum and dad.
Look at the grandparents.
Look at them all sick.
They're all on diabetes.
And there's this generation
coming through saying,
we don't want any of that.
We value our health
much more importantly.
I see 21-year-old and
18-year-olds that are
so into this that--
I wasn't even thinking about
my health back then, mate.
I don't know about you, but I
wasn't even thinking about it.
So I really believe that
if we play this video in 10
years' time, the whole game of
fasting and people working out
whether they want to do
intermittent fasting,
whether they're doing
five-day fasting,
whether they're doing one day
a week or one day a month--
but they're
incorporating this idea
of giving the body a break,
a rest, a chance to regroup,
to re-fire up.
It's been such a huge
part of our success
as being the most successful
species on this planet.
It's something that I believe
is the reason why I am healthy
today and I don't
take medication
and I hardly ever
get sick and I feel
incredibly strong and young--
my knees don't feel so young,
but the rest of my body does--
is because of this
idea of going without.
And so that would be probably--
that lesson would be
the scientific lesson.
And if I could have one
spiritual lesson, James,
or I could add in
the spiritual lesson,
I would say that we all
need to love ourselves
a little bit more and
give ourselves a break
and don't be so tough
and hard on ourselves.
Majority of the time, we
are our own worst critic.
And we need to ease up and we
need to give ourselves a break.
And we need to spend
more time with self-love.
>> What a great message, Joe.
I'd love to sit
in on that class.
>> Let's have it.
>> We've got 45 minutes.
>> All right.
>> It's been great
chatting to you, mate.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Thanks a lot for opening up
and sharing everything with us.
>> Fantastic.
Brilliant.
>> Appreciate it.
See ya.
If you haven't seen "Fat,
Sick, & Nearly Dead" or also
"Hungry for Change" or his
other films, "Fat, Sick,
& Nearly Dead 2"
and "The Kids Menu,"
make sure to check them out.
They're fabulous films.
[MUSIC PLAYING]